hey Sylvia Perez here welcome to this
video in this video I'm gonna talk about
Google Ads naming conventions and how to
go ahead and name your Google ads
campaigns now this topic for this video
isn't something that's very popular or
you know very sexy or anything like that
this is a very boring and almost seems
meaningless to talk about but actually
naming your campaigns correctly is a
huge deal because as you start to create
more campaigns if you don't have a
system in place on how to go about
naming your campaigns it can get real
messy real quick and even if you let's
say you're doing your Google Ads
yourself and you're the one creating all
your campaigns and you understand how
you have things that's great but if you
ever decide later on down the line that
you want to bring in some help or you
want to hire an employee to do this for
you or anything or just involve any
other human being if in your Google Ads
account if you don't have a process in
place on how to go about naming those
campaigns it's gonna be a real nightmare
and even if it's just you doing your
campaigns yourself if you don't have a
process in place when it comes to
reporting on your campaigns that's gonna
be real nightmare too so I want to get
ahead go ahead and get into this video
and I want to cover three main topics
three main points on naming your
campaigns and what I found to work best
in my experience so let's get started so
looking right here in the Google ads
interface you can see I have three
campaigns one is furniture the other
ones Colorado and then the other one is
campaign number one so most of the times
when I review Google Ads accounts I
noticed the name of the campaign that
the account I'm reviewing is either in
one of these three buckets so most
people they either name their campaign
based on like the Google default setting
which is by a number so campaign number
one number two number three number four
so on and so forth that's usually one of
the most common ones because people
create the campaigns and they just leave
the Google default name the other one
that I usually see is they'll name their
campaigns by location so they'll say for
example just Colorado if they're running
ads in Colorado and then the last one is
they'll do it by whichever product
they're offering so they'll do furniture
now
I think of all these three if you had to
go with one I would say you know
furniture is probably the best because
at least has some indication on what
kind of campaign you're running but just
naming your campaign furniture based on
the product or service you're selling
isn't enough you want to go ahead and
make sure that you're adding more
information now I want to get to my
first point the first point I want to
make is whatever you decide it's
personal however you're gonna go about
name of your campaigns make sure that
the first and foremost you have a
process in place this is the most
important thing so for example if you
decide for you and your your business
and your reasons and whatever might be
that all your campaigns you're just
gonna name them based on the product or
the service you're offering so in this
case furniture then cool by all means go
ahead and if you find that works best
for you then then you know feel free to
do that that's the first thing is make
sure you have a process in place and I'm
gonna go over an example of you know how
I like to name my campaigns and kind of
why I do it this way
and it might not be the best way but
it's what's worked for me and then the
second thing I want to talk about is
whatever it is you decide on how you're
gonna name your campaigns please make
sure that it is easy to understand
because again going back if you ever
decide to involve another person into
your account management you want to make
sure that your campaigns are named in a
way that it's easy to explain because
you have that process and it's easy to
understand so that when they go into
your account they're not just seeing
campaign number one two three and four
and five and so on and so forth and then
they have to click into the campaign and
go down to the keyword level to actually
understand what it is you're selling
where you're selling it what devices
you're selling it on and so on and so
forth so just make sure that it's easy
to understand and then last but not
least the third point so kind of recap
first point was to have a system have a
process second point is make it easy to
understand and then the last point is
make sure that you set it up in a way
that it does not hurt your reporting
that it doesn't make your life harder so
I want to go ahead and show you an
example of what I mean by that so for
example let's go ahead and download this
campaign report and we're gonna go ahead
and see what this is like
when we want to go ahead and report on
this if we're using Excel if you're
using GA you know it can be a very
similar thing if you're if you're
searching within GA but let's just go
ahead and use Excel for this example so
I'm gonna go ahead and open up this
excel doc and I'm gonna show you guys so
for example you know this is a very
small account to you by the way so
definitely it'll be a lot harder to
filter through these campaigns but
imagine when you know try to try to
think bigger right like when your
account is growing and and now you're
not just using search campaigns using
display campaigns and you're using video
campaigns but not just these type of
campaigns you're reaching people in
different stages of the funnel so how
are you gonna segment the different
types of campaigns you're using maybe
you're you're reaching top of the funnel
traffic maybe it's more of an awareness
campaign maybe it's more bottom of the
funnel it's more you know direct
response trying to get the sale so how
do you go about differentiating all
these things within your campaign name
these are all things to consider when
you put together that process for
yourself so for it for example I'm gonna
go ahead and just kind of clean this
report up a little bit and we're just
gonna you know really show you what I
mean by this so just you know at the
very basic let's say we have a whole
bunch of campaigns right we only have
these two campaigns but at the very
minimum let's say we want to filter by
campaign type so we want to filter being
sort search campaigns and display
campaigns if I just download this
campaign report and I don't have the
campaign type column already enabled
it's gonna be really hard for me to
filter by this right so that means I'm
gonna have to click on this drop-down
arrow and then I'm have to filter by
campaign type but what if our campaigns
are more complex and it's not just about
you know search or display or this and
that maybe it's a certain stage of the
funnel then how are we gonna go in and
and segment that so by putting those
things in your campaign name we all we
have to do is just click on this
campaign column we can unselect this and
we can search for example you know maybe
we're reaching top of the funnel traffic
with a certain campaign so we will name
them tofu for a top funnel and we just
go ahead and search that and then it's
gonna filter all those campaigns that
are top of the funnel campaigns or maybe
were targeting campaigns that are
selling furniture in Colorado for
example so then we can put furniture and
Colorado and go ahead and
pull that out so naming your campaigns
has a huge effect on your campaign
reporting so just something to keep in
mind now when I go ahead and and kind of
go backwards a little bit and go back
into the Google ads interface and just
kind of show you some examples of how
you can go about name your campaigns and
this is kind of how I've been going
about doing it and I would love to hear
if you guys have another way so kind of
the way I would go about doing this
let's say we're I'm selling I'm doing a
furniture campaign it's a search
campaign and it's in Colorado so the way
I would like to do it is usually I like
to start with the business name so I'll
go ahead and let's call this business I
don't know let's call them furniture in
my I don't know furniture Miami that's
their name all right so then what I
would do is I would start with the
business name then from there I would
put the campaign type so for example
there are a lot of different types of
campaigns you can create right going
back to the previous example it can be
an awareness campaign it can be a brand
campaign so it can be a conquest
campaign maybe this campaign is meant to
go against competitors and bid on
competitor keywords so whatever that
campaign type is I'll go ahead and put
that in this section right and I usually
like to put the the little I don't know
what you call that like a the pipe
symbol to separate the the different
names so we have the business name and
then we have the campaign type so let's
just say this is a brand campaign so
we're doing branded keywords and then
from there this is on the search Network
so I'll go ahead and put in search and
then from there I'll go ahead and put in
the location here so if this is a local
business or even if it's international
business I like to go ahead and put in
the locations here that way I can
further segment this type of campaign so
then let's just say Colorado and then
last but not least I'll put all devices
and that's kind of how wrap it out and
then usually if if I like to get more
granular what you can do as well is
before all devices I like to put like
the stage of the funnel that this
campaign is so let's just say we're
doing bottom of the funnel so I like to
go bow foo and then space and then all
devices and I'll save that
now our campaign is saved and we don't
only know that this campaign is a brand
campaign we know that it's a search
campaign we know that it's showing ads
in Colorado and we know that we're
reaching people on the bottom of the
funnel and we're targeting all devices
so now with this campaign naming
structure we can get a lot more granular
we can have much better understanding of
what's going on and what purpose this
campaign serves and that way when we go
to report
we can easily filter to find this
campaign and other campaigns like it so
that is it for this video so to recap
make sure you have a process in place
whatever it is for you there's no right
or wrong way as long as it works for you
second that it's easy to understand and
third that it does not hurt you when it
comes to reporting so those are the
three major points and also another tip
to to also consider when writing your
naming process is some people like to
separate campaigns by match types so
maybe you filter your campaign names by
the match type other people like to also
put in the languages so if this is an
English campaign versus a Spanish
campaign other people as well make
specific campaigns for specific types of
products so you might want to put in
those products within the campaign name
as well so there's all other things that
you can consider when putting together
that your process and your process will
evolve with you as you adapt as you
learn as your account grows and so on
and so forth but that is it for this
video guys I had a bit of a cold so if
you hear my voice a lot deeper apologize
for that but I want to shoot this video
for you so that is it go ahead and
follow along and subscribe to the
channel if you got some value from this
video and I'll see you next time take
care
[Music]